---
layout: post
title: "College To Consulting To Product In Under Six Months"
date: 2012-02-25 17:32
comments: false
categories: 
---

Recently a couple of people have suggested to me that I write a blog post about my transition from
college to Obtiva and then 3 short months later to Groupon. So I figured I'd give it a go and
hopefully people get something out of my experiences.


## Obtiva / Consulting

I started at Obtiva in June of 2010 about two weeks after graduating from college. I had met a few
of the people who worked at Obtiva so I had an idea of how consulting worked, but having only worked
for product companies until then I wasn't quite sure what to expect. My first day was pretty much a
whirlwind of filling out paperwork, trying to get my dev environment setup and hearing about the
team I was going to be working with.

My first day, as I assume most people's first day of full-time work is, was very exciting. But more
than that it was disorienting. My boss was throwing around a lot of words I had never heard in the
context of software development before, like stories, tracker, cards, and a few other things that we use in
agile development. This being my first day, I didn't want to stop him and say, what the hell are you
talking about, so I sat there nodded my head, and figured I'd do a bunch of googling that night. 

Well what I found out was that, while I had been doing an agile development process in college I
hadn't used a lot of the same terms that people in industry were using. So, having a much better
idea of what my boss had been talking about that idea I came into work the next day and was asked to
pair with a senior consultant on the project I was going to be working on. I thought to myself
"Awesome, I'm already getting to work directly with someone who knows way more than I do." While, it
was the case that he knew way more than me, he unfortunately wasn't great at slowing down and
explaining things to me and I was still too nervous to stop him to say I don't understand. This
probably mostly stems from my own insecurities and unwillingness to speak up, but I think it also
speaks to the assumptions we make of our new hires, especially those coming straight from college.
It never even occurred to me that it was my first time seeing code from a fairly large project and
no one was expecting me to completely understand what was going on. 
